Nasal saline irrigations help
to prevent build up of mucus
in the nose, sinus passages, and throat.
This may help prevent asthma attacks
and sinus infections.
The method used for these irrigations
depends on your child’s age
and comfort level.
If your child is an infant,
put 10 to 20 drops (0.5 to 1 ml)
of normal saline into one nostril.
Then suction out the mucus
and saline with a bulb syringe.
Repeat the procedure in the other nostril,
and then repeat in both
nostrils if necessary.
For a young child who can blow her
own nose but needs some help,
gently squeeze normal saline
from a nasal spray bottle
into one nostril.
Then have her sniff
and blow her nose.
Repeat this in the other nostril.
An older child who does not need help
can follow the same procedure as adults:
Lean over a sink,
cup some saline in the hand,
and sniff into one nostril.
Or instill the saline into one nostril
with a bulb syringe
or nasal spray bottle.
Then blow the nose gently.
Repeat with the other nostril.